

===== PAGE 1 =====
Dynamic Asset Allocation  
Through the Business Cycle:  
A Macro Regime Approach
Global Multi-Asset Group
“ When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?” 
    —Attributed to John Maynard Keynes 1 
Investors across the board, from institutional to retail, face the common dilemma of how to 
manage an asset allocation over time. Should allocations be fixed and strategic, or should they 
be actively managed? We believe that a dynamic approach to asset allocation is the best way 
to capitalize on changing investment opportunities and risk environments. But how should the 
allocation be actively managed? It is well documented that owning cheap or undervalued assets 
typically yields good results. We believe this approach works best over longer time horizons; 
however, it is not a reliable indicator over shorter time frames. To better manage assets over 
the short and medium term, we use forward-looking macroeconomic analysis that helps us 
determine our asset allocation during particular phases of the business cycle. 
Mark Hamilton
Chief Investment Officer
Asset Allocation
Alessio de Longis
Portfolio Manager
Global Multi-Asset Group
Not FDIC Insured
May Lose Value
Not Bank Guaranteed
Executive  Summary
•  While valuation is a powerful predictor of long-term asset returns, we believe its power  
as a performance indicator declines as the investment horizon shortens.
•  We have developed a macro regime framework to allocate assets dynamically through 
the stages of the business cycle over the short and medium term. 
•  We use leading economic indicators to identify macro regimes in a timely manner, and 
provide empirical evidence of how the prices of equities, credit and sovereign fixed 
income are driven by the change, not the level, of growth under different macro regimes. 
•  Using our macro framework, historical analysis of the last 45 years shows that asset returns 
vary significantly between regimes, with major implications for asset allocation decisions.
1.  Two Keynes biographers, Lord Robert Skidelsky and Donald Moggridge, believe the quotation is apocryphal. Wall Street Journal columnist  
Jason Zweig has offered $10 to the first person to identify the source of the remark. 


===== PAGE 2 =====
2
The Limits of Valuation
Valuation-based investment frameworks are power -
ful predictors of long-term forward returns. However, 
a close look at the data makes it clear that valuation 
is not a reliable indicator over shorter time frames.
In Exhibit 1, we use earnings yield—the inverse of 
the P/E ratio2—as a proxy for valuation methods 
in general.  Exhibit 1    We plot earnings yield for a 
number of periods and chart the subsequent 10-year 
annualized return for the S&P 500 Index. We would 
expect to see that high earnings yields lead to strong 
returns, and vice versa. In fact, the data confirms a 
remarkably strong relationship between earnings 
yield and long-term forward returns. Over the period 
since 1970, we find that roughly half of the variability 
of 10-year forward returns can be explained by the 
starting valuation point. The data tells us that invest -
ing when the market is cheap has typically delivered 
strong subsequent returns over a 10-year horizon. 
By the same token, investing when the market is 
expensive tends to deliver below-average returns 
over the same horizon. 
Why is this the case? When earnings yields are rela -
tively high, a portfolio gains two advantages that help 
it do well over time. First, the portfolio is exposed to 
a higher amount of corporate earnings per unit of 
cost. Second, equity prices tend to mean revert over 
time, giving the portfolio an additional benefit from 
potential price appreciation. Exactly the opposite 
occurs when earnings yields are low. A portfolio 
receives less in starting yield and is less likely to earn 
a significant amount via price appreciation because 
its stocks are already expensive and prices tend to 
mean revert downward.
However, this relationship weakens significantly 
when the time horizon is shortened. Looking out over 
three years, the starting valuation point explains only 
12% of the variability of returns. Over this window, 
sometimes expensive markets delivered good 
returns over three years, while sometimes cheap 
markets delivered poor returns. Further, when the 
time horizon is shortened to one month, valuation 
gives us barely any predictive power. Exhibit 2  
Valuation is less helpful over the short term because 
it is influenced by the economic environment, the 
business cycle, investor risk appetite, and monetary 
policy, all of which can drive valuations higher or lower. 
In contrast, these effects are less important over the 
long term.
If valuation doesn’t provide the necessary insight 
into the drivers of short- and medium-term returns, 
what does? We believe that macroeconomic analysis 
provides helpful insights over shorter horizons. As 
we will show later, asset price performance varies 
considerably between different phases of the 
business cycle. By incorporating a macro regime 
framework into the investment process, we can 
better manage risk and capture opportunities to help 
deliver a better investor experience in the short to 
medium term. 
OppenheimerFunds
®
2.  Price-to-Earnings (P/E) Ratio: The valuation ratio of a company’s current share price compared to its per-share earnings. 


===== PAGE 3 =====
3
The Right Way to Invest
2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16–5
0
5
10
15
20
25
Earnings Yield (%)
Forward Returns (%)
R2 = 51%
Source: Bloomberg, 8/31/15. Past performance does not guarantee future results.
   Exhibit 1: Valuation Is a “Good” Predictor in the Long Term 
   Earnings Yield vs. 10-Year Forward Returns of the S&P 500 Index Since 1970 
   Exhibit 2: Valuation’s Effectiveness Decreases at Shorter Time Horizons
0
10
20
30
40
50
60%
1-Month 
Forward Return
1-Year 
Returns
3-Year 
Returns
5-Year 
Returns
7-Year 
Returns
10-Year 
Returns
Investment Horizon
R-Squared of Earnings Yield vs. 
Forward Returns of S&P 500 Index
50.6%
32.6%
18.5%
11.7%
7.7% 0.7%
Less Useful
Source: Bloomberg, 8/31/15. Past performance does not guarantee future results.
The index is unmanaged and cannot be purchased directly by investors. Index performance is shown for illustrative purposes only 
and does not predict or depict the performance of any investment.


===== PAGE 4 =====
4
Defining Macro Regimes 
It is well understood that financial markets are heavily 
affected by the macro environment. For instance, 
common wisdom suggests that recessions are 
associated with underperformance in risky assets; 
however, empirical evidence does not necessarily 
confirm this assertion, at least not on the surface. 
In the latest business cycle, for example, the U.S. 
economy was still contracting through the end of 
2009, with –0.2% year-over-year growth in the fourth 
quarter, while high yield and equity markets were up 
nearly 60% and 30%, respectively, that year.3 So, why 
the disconnect? Is there a better way to define macro 
regimes that is more relevant to financial markets? 
Though not an official designation, the often-cited 
definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters 
of negative GDP growth.4 We argue that macro regime 
analysis is more nuanced than just measuring whether 
growth is positive or negative, and that such a metric is 
not the key threshold driving financial markets.
We believe that a better way to define the business 
cycle and its macro regimes is to determine how 
growth is performing versus its long-term trend and, 
more importantly, to assess its direction, i.e., the 
change in growth. As we will show later, the combi -
nation of these two metrics has major implications 
for asset prices and portfolio decisions.
We define four phases, or macro regimes, as follows:
•  Recovery, when growth is below trend  
and accelerating.
•  Expansion, when growth is above trend  
and accelerating.
•  Slowdown, when growth is above trend  
and decelerating.
•  Contraction, when growth is below trend  
and decelerating.
As illustrated in Exhibit 3, each phase has its own 
economic environment with unique growth and 
inflation dynamics, corporate profitability and credit 
conditions. Next, we review in more detail each 
macro regime and its implications for monetary and 
fiscal policy which, in turn, play a critical role in the 
evolution of the business cycle and financial markets 
performance. Exhibit 3  
Recovery: Growth is below trend  
and accelerating
Recovery is the stage that occurs when the econ -
omy is coming out of a recession, with a growth rate 
that is below trend but improving. Although others 
limit the definition of recovery to periods when GDP 
growth is positive, we also include periods when 
GDP growth is still negative, but showing improve -
ments from past readings that were even more 
negative, i.e., growth going from –5% to –2% on an 
annual basis.
In this phase the economy is relatively weak, with 
unemployment still rising and inflation falling due to 
ample spare capacity. Profit margins, while still low, 
are bottoming out because of previous cuts in invest-
ment and labor costs. Monetary and fiscal policies 
are geared towards supporting economic activity 
and countering disinflationary pressures; the result is 
ample financial liquidity and positive credit growth. As 
we will see later, risky assets generally deliver strong 
performance during the recovery phase. 
Expansion: Growth is above trend  
and accelerating
As the economy continues to improve, it reaches 
an expansion when its growth rate is above histor -
ical trend and still accelerating. In this phase the 
economy fully benefits from the lagged effects of 
expansionary policies adopted during the recov -
ery. Earnings growth and profit margins expand 
rapidly, leading to strong business and consumer 
confidence, falling unemployment and rising 
consumption. Credit growth continues to expand. 
Consequently, inflationary pressures begin to 
emerge and monetary policy enters a gradual but 
OppenheimerFunds
®
3. Returns based on the JPMorgan Domestic High Yield Index and the SP 500 Index.
4. Similarly, the official designation from the National Bureau of Economic Research defines a recession as a “significant decline in economic activity spread across 
the economy” http://www.nber.org/cycles/recessions.html.


===== PAGE 5 =====
5
steady tightening cycle aimed at containing infla -
tion and excessive credit creation. As shown later, 
equities are the best performing asset class in 
this regime. Generally, this expansion phase can 
continue for a long period, even several years, until 
the economy begins to respond to tighter monetary 
policy, entering the subsequent slowdown phase. 
Slowdown: Growth is above trend  
and decelerating
While growth remains solidly above trend, it starts 
decelerating due to lagged effects from monetary 
policy tightening. Credit growth begins to slow  
in response to tighter financial conditions and accu -
mulated leverage in the system. Profit margins are 
no longer expanding, while labor markets remain 
tight due to lack of spare capacity. As a result, wage 
and inflationary pressures continue to warrant  
restrictive monetary policy, further reinforcing the 
slowdown. This phase of the business cycle is  
particularly uncertain, with growth decelerations and 
re-accelerations frequently alternating. Financial 
markets performance is also mixed, with insignificant 
risk-adjusted returns. Generally, these peak cyclical 
conditions can last for a couple of years, until the 
slowdown eventually becomes more pronounced, 
leading the economy into a contraction. 
Contraction: Growth is below trend  
and decelerating
The economy enters a contraction when growth dips 
below its long-term trend and continues to deceler-
ate. Within our framework, we consider the economy 
to be in contraction not only when growth is negative, 
but also when growth is still positive, lower than trend 
growth and falling, i.e., a growth rate of 1% for an 
economy with an historical trend of 2%. This differs 
from the typical definition of a recession, which 
describes two or more quarters of negative growth. 
In this final stage growth deteriorates rapidly due 
to tight lending standards, credit contraction and 
excessive inventories. Finally, the unemployment 
rate steadily rises as companies shed workers 
in response to falling profitability. Disinflationary 
pressures rapidly emerge, central banks ease 
aggressively, and governments respond with fiscal 
spending to support employment. As this adjust -
ment process advances, the economy stabilizes and 
responds to expansionary policies, moving itself 
back into recovery and into a new business cycle. 
Risky assets severely underperform during contrac -
tions, while government bonds are typically the best 
performing asset class.
The Right Way to Invest
   Exhibit 3: Understanding the Business Cycle   
   Stylized Business Cycle
Contraction
Monetary
Policy
Credit
Profit 
Margins
Easing
Contracting
Contracting
Recovery
Monetary
Policy
Credit
Profit 
Margins
Easy
Expanding
Bottoming
Out
Slowdown
Monetary
Policy
Credit
Profit 
Margins
Tight
Decelerating
Peaking
Expansion
Monetary
Policy
Credit
Profit 
Margins
Tightening
Growing
Expanding
DeceleratingAccelerating
Trend
Below Trend
Level of Growth
Above Trend


===== PAGE 6 =====
6
   Exhibit 4: Broad CategoriesForward-Looking Macro Analysis: 
Constructing a Leading Indicator  
of the Business Cycle
Traditionally, economists use indicators such as GDP, 
industrial production, or the unemployment rate 
to perform historical analysis of economic cycles. 
However, these measures are impractical for making 
investment decisions in real time, for three reasons:
•  First, these statistics are released with  
a substantial lag to their reference period  
(often 1-2 months). 
• Second, they are subject to multiple revisions. 
•  Third, financial markets tend to lead real  
economic activity, not the other way around.
Therefore, by the time this information is available, 
it tells us something about the past, and it is not 
predictive of future asset price returns. Indeed, 
these reasons are often cited to justify the common 
skepticism about macro analysis and its usefulness 
for an investment decision process. 
To overcome these problems, we construct a 
leading indicator of the U.S. business cycle using 
economic and financial data that are released in a 
timely manner, available at high frequency (at least 
monthly), and not subject to revisions. By focusing 
on forward-looking indicators, we aim to anticipate 
turning points in economic activity and financial 
markets performance. To capture the breadth of the 
cycle rather than relying on one specific industry or 
indicator, we collect information from different parts 
of the economy, selecting indicators from five broad 
categories (see Exhibit 4 for more details), and 
combine them into one composite leading indicator. 
Exhibit 4  
Business surveys
Surveys of manufacturing and service  
industries provide a timely read of sentiment  
in the corporate sector. Respondents’ assess -
ment of prospective demand, order books,  
and inventories offer insights into their outlook 
for future production, hiring intentions, and 
investment spending.
Consumer Surveys
Sentiment surveys contain valuable information 
about consumer expectations on future job pros-
pects, their spending intentions in the near future, 
as well as their overall confidence in the economy. 
This information tends to lead growth in actual 
consumer spending.
Manufacturing Activity
Although manufacturing is a small part of overall 
GDP, especially in developed markets, it is one of 
the most cyclical sectors of the economy, carry-
ing valuable information about potential turning 
points in overall economic activity. Information 
about new orders, inventories, working hours, and 
job vacancies provide early indications of likely 
changes in economic momentum.
Construction and Housing
Analogous to manufacturing, the housing sector 
is particularly cyclical and responsive to the 
flow of credit in the economy. Indicators such as 
building permits, housing starts and mortgage 
applications, among others, provide early signals 
of turning points in the cycle. 
Monetary and Financial Conditions
Monetary policy affects the economy with a  
lag, usually over the course of one or two years. 
As a result, proxy measures of monetary and 
financial conditions offer some of the best leading 
indicators of future growth. These measures 
include short-term real interest rates, the slope of 
the yield curve, money supply growth, and so on.
OppenheimerFunds
®


===== PAGE 7 =====
7
We repeat this process for a large set of countries 
and regions, gathering a comprehensive view of 
economic performance around the world. As one 
example, Exhibit 5 plots our proprietary leading eco -
nomic indicator for the U.S. going back to the 1970s. 
Exhibit 5   
The historical perspective in Exhibit 5 demonstrates 
how cycles follow repetitive patterns over time, with a 
full cycle typically completed over 7 to 10 years. This 
recurrence is an important reminder that the econ -
omy always tends to revert back to its trend, and that 
every acceleration phase is inevitably followed by a 
deceleration, and vice versa. A comparison of the 
theoretical business cycle in Exhibit 3 with the actual 
data in Exhibit 5 highlights the differences between 
economic theory and reality: 
•  Over the long term the four regimes follow one 
another in a “predictable” fashion, with recov -
eries followed by expansions, then slowdowns, 
and then contractions, as suggested by theory. 
However, in practice the cycle experiences 
several shorter term back and forth movements 
between regimes. Especially at the peak of the 
cycle, the economy goes through typical “soft 
patches,” where expansions and slowdowns 
frequently alternate. 
•  Second, the four regimes do not occur with equal 
duration and persistency. Economies typically 
spend only 15%–20% of the time in recoveries, 
15%–20% in contractions, 30%–35% in expan -
sions, and 30%–35% in slowdowns. Note in 
Exhibit  5 how our leading indicator experiences 
sharp falls and V-shaped rebounds in “below-
trend” regimes (i.e., recovery and contraction), 
while it follows a more gradual evolution in “above-
trend” regimes (i.e., expansion and slowdown).
Having described our leading indicators, in the next 
section we investigate their historical performance 
over the past 45 years and verify their ability to anticipate 
turning points in financial markets.
The Right Way to Invest
97
98
99
100
101
102
Jan 1970
Index
Trend
Jul 2015Jan 1980 Jan 1990 Jan 2010Jan 2000
I OFI GMAG United States LEI
Source: OppenheimerFunds’ Global Multi-Asset Group proprietary research of the U.S. Business Cycle Leading Indicator, 8/31/15.  
Past performance does not guarantee future results.
   Exhibit 5: A 45-Year History of the U.S. Business Cycle
OppenheimerFunds’ Global Multi-Asset Group (OFI GMAG) Proprietary U.S. Leading 
Economic Indicator (LEI) (1/31/70–7/31/15)


===== PAGE 8 =====
8
Applying Theory to Practice:  
The Last Decade 
Looking at recent history as an example, Exhibit 6 
describes in detail the period between the two reces -
sions of 2000 and 2008, which serves as a perfect 
template of business cycle dynamics and financial 
markets performance in each regime. Exhibit 6 
Recovery
The business cycle began with a recovery regime 
that lasted from April 2001 to June 2003. Our leading 
indicator began to rebound, driven mainly by improving 
business surveys, construction activity, and aggressive 
monetary easing by the Federal Reserve, which took 
the Fed Funds rate to an historic low of 1%. Although 
the stock market continued to underperform due to 
excessive valuations from the technology bubble, other 
risky assets such as credit outperformed.
Expansion
The economy moved into the expansion regime when 
the U.S. began to grow above trend, beginning in the 
third quarter of 2003. Our indicator registered broad 
improvements in housing activity, consumer senti -
ment, and stronger labor market conditions until the 
first quarter of 2006. As wage and inflationary pres -
sures started to emerge, the Fed began raising rates 
steadily from June 2004 to June 2006. Equities were 
the best performing asset class, while credit offered 
stable income with low volatility, outperforming sover -
eign bonds.
Slowdown
After three years of policy tightening, the economy 
peaked in the first quarter of 2006, just before the 
Federal Reserve’s final hikes, and entered the slow-
down regime. The slowdown was led by a substantial 
deceleration in housing activity, followed by manufac-
turing and falling consumer confidence. In spite of the 
slowdown, labor markets exhibited strength for another 
12 months through mid-2007, with rising wages and 
falling unemployment, which caused the Fed to remain 
on hold. While stocks continued to outperform, driven 
mainly by strong growth in emerging markets, credit 
markets were showing clear signs of stress, confirming 
a tightening in lending standards.
Contraction
Our indicator showed that the economy entered 
into the contraction regime at the end of 2007, when 
the U.S. started growing below trend, driven by a 
widespread deterioration in all its components. 
The economy then experienced a severe recession 
lasting almost 18 months. Risky assets underper -
formed dramatically, while government bonds were 
the only asset class able to provide protection and 
diversification. Our indicator showed that a new 
business cycle began with a recovery that started in 
the second quarter of 2009, led by very accommo -
dative monetary policy (i.e., quantitative easing), and 
rebounding business and consumer confidence.
OppenheimerFunds
®
97
98
99
100
101
102
Dec-00
Index
Trend
Dec-02
Dec-04
Dec-06
Dec-08
Apr-09
I OFI GMAG United States LEI
Dec-01
Dec-03
Dec-05
Dec-07
Jun-01
Jun-02
Jun-03
Jun-04
Jun-05
Jun-06
Jun-07
Jun-08
Recovery
4/30/01–6/30/03
Expansion
7/31/03–2/28/06
Slowdown
3/31/06 –1 1/30/07
Contraction
1 2/31/07 –4/30/09
Source: OppenheimerFunds’ Global Multi-Asset Group proprietary research of the U.S. Business Cycle Leading Indicator, 8/31/15.  
Past performance does not guarantee future results.
   Exhibit 6: The 2001–2008 Business Cycle
  OFI GMAG U.S. Leading Economic Indicator (12/31/00–4/30/09)
n OFI GMAG United States LEI


===== PAGE 9 =====
9
Historical Performance of Asset 
Classes During the Business Cycle
Using historical monthly data, we determine the cur -
rent macro regime based on the most recent level 
and change in our leading indicator, relying only on 
information available at the time. Assuming we will 
remain in the same regime over the following month, 
we measure the performance of traditional risk pre -
mia, i.e., relative performance between major asset 
classes, such as equities, high yield, investment 
grade, government bonds and cash. Exhibit 7 sum -
marizes our findings for the performance of U.S. risk 
premia during the multiple business cycles experi -
enced between 1970 and 2013. Exhibit 7  
Recovery
Risky assets do remarkably well, and investors are 
compensated for taking on additional risk. Both 
equities and credit outperform government bonds; 
in addition, high yield credit outperforms investment 
grade and delivers the best total returns as an asset 
class, often outperforming equities. This perfor -
mance is consistent with the common perception that 
high yield spreads tend to compress rapidly towards 
the end of a recession, providing substantial price 
appreciation for investors, and leading the turn in the 
broader risk appetite. Government bonds provide 
attractive returns over cash, since inflation is still 
falling and monetary policy is in its final easing stage. 
Expansion 
Equities are the best-performing asset class in the 
expansion phase, benefiting from the sustained 
acceleration in economic momentum, which trans -
lates into rapid earnings growth and expansion in 
profit margins. Credit markets, which experienced 
the bulk of spread compression in the recovery 
phase, are now mainly an income proposition. 
Spreads stabilize at or below historical average, 
supported by solid macro backdrop and limited vol -
atility. High yield still outperforms investment grade, 
but this relative outperformance is mostly explained 
by higher yields rather than price outperformance. 
Because of rising inflation and tightening monetary 
policy, government bonds are the worst-performing 
asset class, barely matching returns from cash.
Slowdown
This phase of the cycle is the most uncertain for 
asset allocation decisions. Despite economic growth 
being above trend, equity, credit, and government 
bond markets all deliver similar performance, 
broadly in line with cash yields, which at this stage 
have risen because of cumulative policy tightening. 
Once volatility is factored in, this macro environment 
offers unattractive risk-adjusted returns, arguing for 
a neutral asset allocation stance. 
The Right Way to Invest
   Exhibit 7: Different Risk Premia Have Outperformed in Different Macro Regimes 
   U.S. Historical Returns
I U.S. Equity Premium I U.S. High Yield Premium I U.S. Credit Premium I U.S. Duration Premium
11 %
4%
1%
–1%
2%
–1% 0%
1%
–20%
–5%
–2%
10%
12%
10%
5% 5%
Recovery
Expansion Slowdown
Contraction
Sources: OppenheimerFunds’ proprietary research of the U.S. Business Cycle Leading Indicator, 12/31/14. Bloomberg. Annualized 
monthly returns of the defined risk premia from January 1970 to December 2013. Risk Premia are defined as follows: U.S. Equity 
Premium = MSCI U.S. Total Return Index – U.S. Treasuries 10-YR. High Yield Premium = U.S. High Yield – U.S. Investment Grade 
Credit. Credit Premium = U.S. Investment Grade – U.S. Treasuries. Duration Premium = U.S. Treasuries 10-YR – U.S. T-bills 
3-Month. See definitions page for index definitions. Past performance does not guarantee future results.


===== PAGE 10 =====
10
Contraction
Government bonds are the best-performing asset 
class, supported by severe risk aversion, falling infla -
tion and aggressive monetary policy easing. In this 
environment, the appropriate asset allocation strat -
egy should reduce risk by underweighting exposures 
to equities and credit, and overweighting high quality 
government bonds. 
Applying this methodology to other regions of the 
world yields very similar conclusions. In Exhibit 8, 
we replicate the analysis for the European business 
cycle and its impact on European risk premia.  
Exhibit 8   The overall mapping of asset returns to 
macro regimes is remarkably similar to what we have 
seen for the United States, confirming the validity 
and intuition of this macro framework. 5
This description of the relative performance between 
asset classes is very intuitive and consistent with 
economic priors. Our analysis shows that asset 
returns vary significantly across different business 
cycle regimes, and it demonstrates that the change 
in growth is far more important than the level of 
growth. Financial markets respond to accelerations 
and decelerations in growth, not the level of growth, 
as proven by the dramatically different performance 
in recoveries versus contractions (i.e., same level 
but opposite change), and expansions versus slow -
downs (again, same level but opposite change). 
Our analysis demonstrates that risky assets such as 
equities and credit perform best during recoveries 
and expansions, when growth is accelerating. This 
is when investors are best compensated to increase 
risk in their portfolios. On the other hand, defensive 
assets such as long-dated government bonds offer 
the best returns during contractions, when growth is 
low and decelerating. Finally, the analysis indicates 
that slowdown regimes are highly uncertain, deliver -
ing insignificant risk-adjusted returns over cash. 
OppenheimerFunds
®
   Exhibit 8: Different Risk Premia Have Outperformed in Different Macro Regimes
   European Historical Returns
I European Equity Premium I European High Yield Premium
I European Credit Premium I European Duration Premium
12%
3%
0% –1% –2%
–6%
–1%
2%
–13%
–3%–3%
6%
12%
16%
6%
3%
Recovery
Expansion Slowdown
Contraction
Source: OppenheimerFunds’ proprietary research of the Euro area Business Cycle Leading Indicator, 12/31/14. Annualized monthly 
returns of the defined risk premia from January 1970 to December 2013. Risk Premia are defined as follows: European Equity 
Premium = market cap weighted average of Equity risk premia for Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium and Netherlands, using 
MSCI Indices – Citigroup 7-10-YR Treasury Indices (or estimated total returns using 10-YR yields from the OECD before Citigroup 
data is available). European High Yield Premium = Barclays Pan European (Euro) Index – Barclays Euro Aggregate Corporate 
Bond Index, from 1/29/99. European Credit Premium = Barclays Euro Aggregate Corporate Excess Returns Index, from 9/30/98. 
European Duration Premium = From 1985–2013, Citigroup Germany 7-10-YR Treasury – 3M German T Bill; from 1970–1985, 
Total return estimates from Germany 10-YR yields (OECD data) – 3M German T-Bill. See definitions page for index definitions. 
Past performance does not guarantee future results.
5. Performance patterns illustrated in Exhibit 7 and Exhibit 8 are very similar when using risk-adjusted returns.


===== PAGE 11 =====
11
Conclusion
Valuation is a powerful tool for long-term asset 
allocation decisions, but its effectiveness over the 
medium term is substantially weaker. Over shorter 
time horizons asset prices are driven, among other 
things, by fluctuations in the business cycle and eco -
nomic policies enacted along with it. Using leading 
indicators of the business cycle, we built a real-time 
framework to determine the current phase of the 
cycle and make informed investment decisions. Our 
analysis shows that asset prices are mostly driven 
by the change in growth, not the level of growth. In 
other words, knowing the current growth rate of the 
economy per se does not provide insights into the 
likely performance of financial markets. Instead, 
what matters for asset prices are accelerations and 
decelerations in growth. 
There are strong underlying linkages between 
economic growth, corporate earnings, the health 
of balance sheets, the ability of companies to invest 
productively, and consumers’ desire to spend and 
consume. All these phenomena are self-reinforcing 
and affect asset prices in a significant way. When the 
economic cycle is improving, risk assets—equities 
and credit in particular—perform well, and vice versa.
While it is imperative to anticipate the cycle with 
forward-  looking economic information, macro 
regimes tend to be persistent in the medium term, 
allowing investors to adapt to the changing economic 
environment and adjust their portfolios accordingly.
It is also important to note that while our macro 
regimes framework is a very significant and power -
ful input to our investment process, we do not rely 
on it on a standalone basis. It is one part of a well- 
structured system designed to give us insights into 
drivers of financial markets and asset prices. We 
combine macro analysis with market indicators used 
to assess valuation and momentum, and use risk 
measures to assess volatility and the credit cycle. 
Together, these multiple perspectives help us create 
asset allocations based on a comprehensive view of 
the opportunities and risks in the marketplace.
The Right Way to Invest
Index Definitions
The S&P 500 Index is a market capitalization weighted index of the 500 largest domestic U.S. stocks.
The Barclays Aggregate Bond Index is an index of U.S. Government and corporate bonds that includes reinvestment of dividends.
The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Credit Index includes both corporate and non-corporate sectors. The corporate sectors are Industrial, Utility and Finance, 
which include both U.S. and non-U.S. corporations. The non-corporate sectors are Sovereign, Supranational, Foreign Agency and Foreign Local Government. 
The index is calculated monthly on a price-only and total-return basis. All returns are market value-weighted inclusive of accrued interest.
The Barclays Pan-European High-Yield (Euro) Index measures the market of non-investment-grade, fixed rate corporate bonds denominated in euro.
The Barclays Euro Corporate Bond Index is a broad-based benchmark that measures the investment-grade, euro-denominated, fixed rate corporate bond market.
Credit Suisse U.S. High Yield Index tracks the performance of domestic non-investment-grade corporate bonds. 
Citigroup 3-Month Treasury Bill Index is an unmanaged index that tracks short-term U.S. Government debt instruments. 
Citigroup 10-Year Treasury Benchmark On-the-Run Index is an unmanaged index that tracks the performance of on-the-run U.S. Government debt instruments 
with approximately 10 years to maturity. 
The MSCI Total Return Index measures the price performance of markets with the income from constituent dividend payments.
The MSCI Europe Index is a free-float weighted equity index designed to measure the equity market performance of the developed markets in Europe.
U.S. Duration Premium: U.S. Treasuries 10-Yr – U.S. T-Bills 3-Month. For the 10-Yr Treasuries, Citigroup 10-Year Treasury Benchmark On-the-Run Total Return 
Index is used from 1980 onward. Prior to 1980, history is backfilled with estimated total returns using 10-Yr yields from Bloomberg between 1970 and 1980.
U.S. High Yield Premium: U.S. High Yield – U.S. Investment Grade Credit, using the Credit Suisse U.S. High Yield Index and the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Credit Index.
U.S. Credit Premium: U.S. Investment Grade – U.S. Treasuries, using the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Credit Excess Return Index from 1988 onward. Prior to 1988, 
we backfill the excess returns using the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Credit Total Return Index minus estimated duration-equivalent U.S. Treasury total returns.
U.S. Equity Premium: MSCI Total Return Index – U.S. Treasuries 10-Yr. 
The indices are unmanaged and cannot be purchased directly by investors.


===== PAGE 12 =====
Mark Hamilton
Chief Investment Officer, Asset Allocation  
Mark Hamilton, CIO, Asset Allocation, leads the Firm’s efforts 
to design and implement multi-asset products and solutions. 
He serves as portfolio manager of Oppenheimer Global 
Allocation Fund, Oppenheimer Global Multi-Asset Growth Fund, 
Oppenheimer Global Multi-Alternatives Fund, Oppenheimer 
Global Multi-Asset Income Fund and Oppenheimer Portfolio 
Series Funds. He joined the Firm in 2013 after a 19-year career 
at AllianceBernstein.
Alessio de Longis
Portfolio Manager, Global Multi-Asset Group
Alessio de Longis, CFA, is a portfolio manager for the Global  
Multi-Asset Group (GMAG), which he joined in October 2013. 
Additionally, Mr. de Longis leads the group’s macro strategy,  
focusing on business cycle dynamics, global macro regimes,  
and their impact on asset class risks and returns, and manages 
active currency strategies in GMAG’s funds. From 2004 to 2013,  
he was a member of the Global Debt team.
The authors thank John Muth, Research Analyst, for his contributions.
These views represent the opinions of OppenheimerFunds, Inc. and are not intended as investment advice or to predict or depict the performance 
of any investment. These views are as of 11/5/15 and are subject to change based on subsequent developments.
Shares of Oppenheimer funds are not deposits or obligations of any bank, are not guaranteed by any bank, are not insured by the 
FDIC or any other agency, and involve investment risks, including the possible loss of the principal amount invested.
Before investing in any of the Oppenheimer funds, investors should carefully consider 
a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Fund prospectuses and 
summary prospectuses contain this and other information about the funds, and may be 
obtained by asking your financial advisors, visiting our website at oppenheimerfunds.com 
or calling 1.800.CALL OPP (225.5677). Investors should read prospectuses and  
summary prospectuses carefully before investing.
Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc.
225 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281-1008
© 2015 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. All rights reserved.
ND0000.004.1015 November 5, 2015
Visit Us 
oppenheimerfunds.com  
 
Call Us 
800 225 5677  
 
Follow Us