

===== PAGE 1 =====
Regime Change
Implications of macro shifts on asset class and portfolio performance 
Based on the analysis presented here, we believe that regime-
based asset allocation has the potential to deliver significant 
benefits when compared to traditional investment policies, 
which are most commonly static and benchmark based. 
Contingent on good economic foresight, implementation of a 
regime-based approach can potentially add to cumulative  
performance over time, translating to an improved distribution 
of overall portfolio returns.
The Rationale for Regime–based Investing
It is a well-recognized empirical observation that different 
asset classes respond differently to different economic drivers. 
For example, fixed income assets tend to respond to 
anticipated movements in interest rates, among other factors: 
prices fall when interest rates rise. Commodities respond to, 
and sometimes drive, inflation expectations: commodity prices 
can rise fast when inflation expectations are rising, and they 
can fall quickly once inflation appears to have peaked.
In this paper, we present a framework 
for using regime-based asset allocation 
to improve portfolio efficiency and 
resiliency under a variety of economic 
scenarios. Our goal is to help long-term 
institutional investors take advantage 
of positive economic regimes, as well 
as withstand adverse economic regimes 
and reduce potential drawdowns.
Summary


===== PAGE 2 =====
Regime Change
2  |  Regime Change: Implications of macro shifts on asset class and portfolio performance
It is also well recognized that asset class behavior can vary 
significantly over shifting economic scenarios. For example, 
business cycles tend to impact cyclical vs. non-cyclical compa -
nies in markedly different ways, primarily due to sensitivities 
of consumers and producers to economic growth. Periods of 
capital markets liberalization (i.e., different regulatory envi-
ronments) are often accompanied by favorable equity returns 
(as compared to bond returns)—as evidenced by many current 
and former emerging market economies.
Exhibit 1 shows the average performance of different asset 
classes in four economic regimes.1
These results indicate that no single asset class dominates 
under all economic conditions. From an investment perspec-
tive, even a purely historical analysis based on simple scenar -
ios (built with only two variables: growth and inflation) sup -
ports our hypothesis that financial market performance does 
indeed vary significantly as economic conditions change.
Yet, while asset class performance certainly varies under dif -
ferent conditions, traditional asset allocation approaches make 
no effort to adapt to such shifts. Instead, traditional 
approaches seek to develop static “all-season” portfolios that 
optimize efficiency across a range of economic scenarios. 
In this paper, we consider a compelling alternative. We define 
economic trends in their totality, as a single complex system 
that changes over time to produce what we call economic 
“regimes.” And we investigate whether regime-based asset 
allocation can effectively respond to economic regimes at the 
portfolio level in an effort to provide better long-term results 
when compared to static benchmark-based approaches.
It is worth noting that regime-based investing is distinct from 
tactical asset allocation. While the latter is shorter term, 
higher frequency (i.e., daily or monthly), and driven primarily 
by valuation considerations, regime-based investing targets a 
longer time horizon (i.e., a year or more), and is driven by 
changing economic fundamentals. It straddles a middle 
ground between strategic and tactical. A regime-based 
approach is designed to give investors the flexibility to adapt 
to changing economic conditions within a benchmark-based 
investment policy.
Assessing the Potential Benefits of  
Regime-based Investing
Based on our analysis, we arrive at three key conclusions 
about regime-based investing: 
Economic regimes can be defined in terms of four key 1. 
factors, which tend to dominate financial market 
performance. These four factors are economic growth, 
inflation, monetary policy and labor market slack. 
Developing insight into near-term changes in these four 
factors—rather than their absolute levels—can provide an 
effective framework for executing a regime-based asset 
allocation policy.
No single portfolio is resilient to all economic regimes—the 2. 
concept of a static “all-season” portfolio is a myth. Asset 
class performance varies significantly across different 
regimes, be they economic, regulatory, political or 
otherwise. For example, portfolios resilient to deflationary 
environments will likely underperform during periods of 
high inflation, and vice versa. Different economic regimes 
require different asset allocations.
1  These four regimes are “simplified” versions of the ones we develop in our 
full white paper as part of our asset allocation framework, using an expanded 
list of economic factors (please contact your J.P. Morgan client advisor for the 
full paper).
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only. Analysis based on quarterly data and rolling annual returns from Q4 1973 to Q4 2010.
r egime 1
rising growth +
rising inflation 
r egime 2
rising growth +
Falling inflation 
r egime 3
Falling growth +
rising inflation 
r egime 4
Falling growth +
Falling inflation
asset class 32 periods 34 periods 36 periods 47 periods
U.S. Dollar -4.7 (Worst) 2.6 -2.8 (Worst) 1.7
Commodities 9.1 (Best) 1.5 (Worst) 11.7 (Best) -6.3 (Worst)
Treasuries 3.9 8.7 5.5 11.5
Credit 6.8 12.6 2.1 12.1 (Best)
U.S. Equities 4.5 14.7 (Best) 1.0 5.5
Average return 3.9 8.0 3.5 4.9
Exhibit 1: a vEragE annual rEturn (%) From diFFErEnt aSSEt claSSES ovEr diFFErEnt hiS torical E conomic rE gimES


===== PAGE 3 =====
J.P. Morgan Asset Management  |  3 
Regime-based asset allocation may have a significant 3. 
impact on portfolio efficiency.2 Ignoring shifting economic 
regimes can exact a significant toll on portfolio performance, 
exposing it to draw-downs during interim periods of height-
ened turbulence and volatility. A good example of such a 
period is the Great Recession of 2008–2009. Based on our 
research, a typical benchmark-based portfolio would have 
lost approximately 17%, compared to a regime-oriented 
portfolio that would have lost only 7%.
On the other hand, addressing changes in economic regimes 
through regime-based asset allocation may provide significant 
performance benefits, including mitigating downside risk in 
extreme scenarios, i.e., so-called “tail” events. For the hypo-
thetical portfolio used in this paper, a regime-based asset 
allocation approach improves real returns from -6.4% (for a 
static approach) to 5.7% in a severe recessionary scenario 
(coupled with deflation). In a high inflation scenario, a regime-
oriented portfolio improves real returns from -2.7% (for a 
static portfolio) to 8.6%. 
Exhibit 2 illustrates the impact of a regime-oriented asset allo-
cation framework assuming perfect economic foresight on the 
probability distribution of portfolio returns.3 A regime-oriented 
approach reduces the negative skew and kurtosis of the distri-
bution. Both contribute towards making the overall distribution 
more attractive for the investor, thus clearly illustrating the 
power of an effective regime-based asset allocation approach.
Key Challenges to a Regime-based 
Investment Approach
While we can be certain that assets respond to economic 
regimes, and we can demonstrate that a regime-based 
framework may add value over time, there still remain two key 
significant hurdles between theory and practice.
First, we need to capture the complex nature of the interac -
tion between economic drivers and assets. Our key finding in 
this regard is that these relationships are state dependent and 
non-linear in nature. Second, we need to establish the level of 
2  Portfolio efficiency in this context is defined as the return per unit of  
risk undertaken.
3  We develop the distribution of portfolio returns based on the results of 
our back test. In other words, we apply a regimes-based asset allocation 
approach from Q1 1984. The analysis assumes perfect economic foresight.  
In our full white paper, we consider the impact of imperfect economic 
foresight on the value added from a regimes-based framework.
Static portfolio
r egime-based  
(perfect foresight)
Mean (%) 6.7 8.9
Median (%) 7.7 9.4
Maximum (%) 26.8 27.6
Minimum (%) -18.1 -7.7
Std. Dev. (%) 8.0 7.7
Skewness -0.61 -0.06
Kurtosis 3.80 2.66
Jarque-Bera 9.19 0.57
Probability 0.01 0.75
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.
Exhibit 2: impact oF rE gimE -oriEntEd aSSEt allocation  
on diS tribution oF rEturnS with pErFE ct E conomic F orESight
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7Density
Static portfolio 
Regime-based
-30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40
Annual return (%)
economic foresight necessary to be successful; our analysis 
indicates that successful implementation of a regime-based 
framework requires only imperfect economic foresight. 
However, we find that even this level of skill is not necessarily 
easy to achieve in practice. 
Below, we provide further detail on each of these  
key challenges.
1. Regime-based investing requires understanding the state-
dependent relationship between financial markets and the 
broader economy, and devising a method of modeling the 
non-linear nature of such relationships.
Successful regime investing is predicated on modeling the 
relationships between assets and economic performance driv -
ers. This process starts with the recognition that the direction 
and strength of financial market movements depends on a 
range of broad economic factors. For example, equities tend 
to do well in environments featuring rising growth rates, as 
well as falling inflation. We can say that equities are “state 
dependent” in that they respond to the state of the economy 


===== PAGE 4 =====
Regime Change
4  |  Regime Change: Implications of macro shifts on asset class and portfolio performance
Of course, asset class performance can be driven by more 
than just economic fundamentals (as indicated by low 
R-squared values of some of our equations). In particular, 
changes to valuation, e.g., Price-Earnings ratios for Equities, 
are often a significant driver of performance. It is possible for 
financial markets to reflect extreme optimism or pessimism 
(from a valuation perspective) for long periods of time, rather 
than pure economic fundamentals. In such cases, regime-
based frameworks may prove inadequate for the purposes of 
developing robust and resilient portfolios.
2. Successfully developing and executing a regime-based 
asset allocation strategy does not require perfect economic 
forecasting skills. However, even imperfect economic 
foresight is not necessarily easy to achieve.
Our framework suggests that CIOs with good economic insight 
can successfully implement and add value using a coherent 
regime-based asset allocation framework. We define good 
insight as forecasting the direction of economic changes, rather 
than their exact magnitude. The former is much more important 
in determining the success of dynamic regime response.
Exhibit 3: annual S&p rEturnS v S. rEal gdp growth  
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.
Linear R2 = 12.0%, Non-linear R2 = 22.5%. Data from December 1964 to  
December 2010. 
Historical Non-linear Linear 
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10
S&P 500 return (%)
Real GDP growth (%)
as defined by such factors. At the same time, we also recog -
nize that financial markets do not always react to changes in 
the economy in an orderly or well-defined fashion. For exam -
ple, in times of extreme market stress, historical correlations 
among asset classes tend to break down. The term we use to 
describe relationships that change character beyond certain 
thresholds is “non-linear.”
In non-linear relationships, two variables may be positively 
correlated under one set of conditions, but show a lower or 
even negative correlation under different conditions. 
Traditional analysis can often overlook such relationships (due 
to zero overall correlation) and mistakenly assumes there is 
no definable relationship at all. Advanced statistical methods, 
however, can capture and model non-linearity, which is an 
important pre-requisite to developing a regime-based frame-
work that adds value over time.
Regime investing, therefore, requires us to develop a capability to 
model relationships that are both state-dependent and non-linear.
Modeling such relationships, however, is quite complex, for both 
conceptual and practical purposes. For example, when one 
looks at a simple scatter plot of the relationship between S&P 
500 returns and GDP growth, at first there may not seem to be 
much of a relationship at all, at least not a clearly linear one. 
Applying a non-linear model, however, helps us make progress 
in defining this relationship: as prospects for economic growth 
improve, equity prices tend to rally, but beyond a certain 
threshold, this relationship, too, starts to break down. 
This relationship is illustrated in Exhibit 3, which plots S&P 
500 returns and levels of real GDP growth.
The chart shows that the impact of incrementally higher real 
GDP on equity prices begins to decline beyond a certain 
threshold. This could be explained, for example, as a reaction 
of markets to price potentially tighter monetary policy or a 
simple cyclical squeeze in profit margins, both of which can 
lead to reduced corporate profits. In practice, equity markets 
are impacted by more than just growth rates, but even the 
simple example above is useful in illustrating the need to 
model both the state-dependency and non-linearity of 
financial market responses to shifting economic regimes. 


===== PAGE 5 =====
J.P. Morgan Asset Management  |  5 
Finally, even with perfect economic foresight (i.e., correctly 
forecasting the direction and magnitude of economic changes) 
asset class response can be extremely difficult to capture. This 
is particularly true when the economy and financial markets 
experience new paradigms relative to history. In such 
circumstances, the relationship between economic factors and 
financial markets can change quickly, leading to under 
performance of a regime-based investing approach developed 
on historical data.
So, it is important not to underestimate the complexity of the 
challenges of foresight, or overstate its power to capture returns.
Illustrating the Results of a Regime-based 
Investment Approach
Even given the complexity of the challenge, our work indicates 
that regime-based investing may add value to portfolios over 
time. And as a preface to our full white paper, we offer the 
following preview of how regime analysis may be implemented 
in an effort to improve portfolio results. (For a copy of the full 
paper, please contact your J.P. Morgan client advisor.)
Step 1: Develop the relationship between economic factors 
and financial markets
As a first step, our regime-based model develops the relation -
ship between asset class performance relative to economic 
“regimes,” which by definition include multiple factors that 
may all be changing simultaneously. In calculating asset return 
dynamics, we note that asset classes show unique sensitivities 
to economic factors; every asset class does not respond to 
every factor. For example, in modeling commodities, the pri-
mary influence in our framework comes from real GDP growth 
and inflation.
The full equation for arriving at the expected commodity 
returns within the framework as at December 31, 2010 is  
as follows:
Commodities return = 0.13 + 8.03 x max(0,∆Inflation - 
1.87%) - 7.46 x max(0, 1.87% - ∆Inflation) + 1.24 x 
max(0,∆Real GDP Growth + 2.65%) - 4.32 x max(0,- 2.64-
∆Real GDP Growth) + 4.50 x max(0,-0.30% - ∆Inflation)
R-Squared = 51.2%
Exhibit 4 shows that the worse the accuracy of the economic 
foresight, the lower the value added by the framework, as 
measured by the average information coefficient.4
However, developing imperfect economic foresight is not 
necessarily straightforward given the confluence of factors 
impacting the economy. These influences include, but are not 
limited to, changing patterns in consumption, savings, 
investments, taxation and fiscal policy on the broader 
economy. In fact, we can glean some insight into the 
necessary skill required to add value using a regime-based 
approach by considering the average information coefficient 
associated with imperfect foresight. At 0.41, this figure is high. 
Typically upper quartile (macro) currency managers have an 
information coefficient of 0.2, while upper quartile equity 
managers have an information coefficient of 0.1, suggesting 
that successful regime-based investing does require 
considerable economic forecasting skills.
4  The information coefficient calculates the correlation between actual and 
forecasted returns, using our regime-based asset allocation framework. It 
is often considered to be a measure of “skill” associated with the manager 
or investment strategy. In our case, the correlation is calculated cross-asset 
classes for each period and averaged over time to produce the average 
information coefficient.
average information coefficient
Bad foresight -0.0494
Imperfect foresight 0.4128
Perfect foresight 0.4467
Exaggerated foresight 0.3786
Bad foresight = -2 × Actual economic conditions 
Imperfect foresight = 0.5 × Actual economic conditions 
Perfect foresight = Actual economic conditions 
Exaggerated foresight = 2 × actual economic conditionsInformation coefficient
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Bad
foresight
Imperfect
foresight
Perfect
foresight
Exaggerated
foresight
Exhibit 4: avEragE inF ormation coEFFiciEnt oF rE gimE-baSEd  
portF olio with varying dE grEES oF E conomic F orESight
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.


===== PAGE 6 =====
Regime Change
6  |  Regime Change: Implications of macro shifts on asset class and portfolio performance
significant. This implies somewhat of a decoupling effect, 
where demand from emerging markets supports commodity 
prices, as long as the global economy avoids a deep recession. 
The complete paper includes equations and explications of  
the relationships between each of our five key asset classes 
(U.S. Dollar, Treasuries, U.S. Equities, Commodities, and Credit) 
and our four economic factors. Based on this work, we 
develop similar conclusions about the state-dependent and 
non-linear relationships between these other asset classes and 
economic factors in our framework.
Step 2: Model the behavior of different asset classes in 
different economic regimes
Once we have developed relationships between our economic 
factors and asset classes, we can model the regime-dependent 
returns of various asset classes. Exhibit 6 outlines six possible 
economic regimes defined in terms of U.S. real GDP growth, 
headline inflation, Federal Funds rate and unemployment and 
ranks five dollar-denominated asset classes for their relative per-
formance potential, from best to worst, within those regimes.
It is clear from this analysis that shifts in asset class leader -
ship are so broad and varied that no static portfolio weighting 
could be optimal across all regimes. Just on an intuitive basis, 
regime-based asset allocation appears to be the most logical 
response to shifting economic regimes.
Step 3: Assess the impact of different economic regimes at 
the total portfolio level and optimize portfolio allocations 
depending on economic insight and risk constraints
The next step is to assess the impact of different economic 
regimes at the total portfolio level and optimize portfolio 
allocations depending on economic insight and the investor’s risk 
Our equations support a positive relationship between  
commodities and changes in real GDP growth, but the  
relationship is significantly less positive beyond a threshold of 
-2.65%. This is illustrated in Exhibit 5.
This threshold effect can be explained in a number of ways, 
one of which is the growing influence of emerging markets on 
commodity markets. For example, many economists argue 
that emerging markets have experienced a decoupling effect 
from developed markets (particularly the U.S.). In other words, 
barring a severe global recession, emerging markets are likely 
to continue on the path of robust economic growth. In such 
instances, their influence on commodity markets, amongst 
others, is likely to grow, not dwindle.
Our analysis supports this theory. In fact, our equation sug -
gests that the influence of U.S. real GDP growth on commodi -
ties is significantly negative below a threshold of -2.65%. In 
other words, U.S. real GDP growth would have to fall by more 
than 2.65% year over year, i.e., a severe (possibly global) 
recession, to significantly detract from commodity returns. 
When this does not happen, i.e., during normal times or mild 
recessions, the impact of U.S. growth on commodities is less 
Exhibit 5: c ommoditiES v S. ∆rEal gdp growth
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
-8.8 -5.2 -1.6 2.1 5.7
Commodity return (%)
∆ Real GDP growth (%)
Growth of commodity returns slows
Exhibit 6: impliEd aSSEt claSS rElativE pErF ormancE undEr diFFErEnt E conomic rE gimES to yEar Ending dE cEmbEr 2011
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.
From to
Scenario
year ended  
december 2010
Severe  
recession r ecession
Stagnant 
economy
moderate  
recovery Strong recovery
Strong recovery 
with inflation
1. Best performer Commodities U.S. Dollar Treasuries Treasuries U.S. Equities U.S. Equities Commodities
2. Above median  
    performer U.S. Equities Treasuries U.S. Dollar Credit Credit Commodities U.S. Dollar
3. Median Credit Credit Credit U.S. Dollar Treasuries Credit Treasuries
4. Below median  
    performer Treasuries U.S. Equities U.S. Equities U.S. Equities Commodities Treasuries U.S. Equities
5. Worst performer U.S. Dollar Commodities Commodities Commodities U.S. Dollar U.S. Dollar Credit
  


===== PAGE 7 =====
J.P. Morgan Asset Management  |  7 
constraints. And our finding is that, for a hypothetical diversified 
portfolio, regime-based asset allocation has the potential to 
significantly increase portfolio efficiency. Exhibit 7 compares the 
results of a static benchmark-based policy to those of a regime-
based policy under the regimes outlined above.
The hypothetical portfolio is most vulnerable to “tail” scenar-
ios of a severe recession or an overheated recovery with infla -
tionary pressures. In both these instances, the real return 
from the portfolio is negative. The current portfolio is best 
structured for a period of mild to normal growth. 
In each case, our model adjusts asset allocation to target 
optimal efficiency under each regime. The optimized portfolios 
(Exhibit 8) for each regime overweight those asset classes 
most likely to perform well in the given economic environment 
and underweight those most likely to perform poorly, allowing 
for the risk constraints specified by the investor.
Purely measured by portfolio returns, the regime-based 
portfolio produces superior results, especially at the 
“tails”—i.e., extreme economic scenarios where traditional, 
Exhibit 7: impli Ed port Folio p Er Formanc E und Er di FFE r Ent 
Economic rE gimES
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Severe
recession
Recession Stagnant
economy
Moderate
recovery
Strong
recovery
Strong recovery
w/inflation
Real portfolio return (%)
Current portfolio returns Regime-based portfolio returns
static approaches show the least resilience. In recessionary or 
stagnant growth scenarios, the regime-based portfolios are 
very conservative in nature, while in moderate to strong 
recovery scenarios, the portfolios are aggressive. In an 
inflationary scenario, the regime-based portfolio is slightly 
more conservative than the current portfolio.
Caveats and Conclusions
It is important to note here we do not advocate abandoning 
benchmark-based investing. Institutional investors set their 
portfolios’ strategic benchmarks based on a desire to meet 
liabilities and other important strategic goals. Within these 
broad objectives, however, we argue that investors may be 
handicapping their portfolios by being regime agnostic, which 
is what a strategic benchmark is. 
Instead, we believe that investors would benefit from being 
“regime aware” and allowing themselves the freedom to 
adjust allocations around the strategic benchmark in response 
to shifts in economic regimes. We believe, based on our 
analysis, that regime-based investing can offer a compelling 
alternative to the static “all-season” approach.
Limitations of reliance
It should be noted that a quantitative framework is only one 
input into the asset allocation process and cannot replace the 
professional skill and judgment necessary to arrive at an 
appropriate strategy. The importance of allowing for subjective—
and often qualitative—factors in decision making remains. 
Further, there is always an explicit need to account for the 
investor’s specific circumstances, including liabilities, when 
arriving at an appropriate portfolio allocation.
(%)
Strategic  
allocation 
Severe 
recession r ecession
Stagnant 
economy
moderate
 recovery
Strong
 recovery
Strong recovery 
with inflation
Commodities 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 18.0 30.0
Treasuries 15.0 30.0 30.0 30.0 15.0 15.0 15.0
Credit 15.0 15.0 15.0 30.0 22.0 15.0 0.0
U.S. Equities 40.0 25.0 25.0 25.0 47.0 43.0 25.0
U.S. Dollar 15.0 30.0 30.0 15.0 8.0 8.9 30.0
Exhibit 8: allocationS to S tratE gic portF olio and Each oF thE rE gimE portF olioS
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustration purposes only.


===== PAGE 8 =====
Regime Change
jpmorgan.com/institutional
IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER
This material is intended to report solely on the investment strategies and opportunities identified by J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Additional information is available 
upon request. Information herein is believed to be reliable but J.P. Morgan Asset Management does not warrant its completeness or accuracy. Opinions and estimates 
constitute our judgment and are subject to change without notice. Past performance is not indicative of future results. The material is not intended as an offer or solicita-
tion for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument. J.P. Morgan Asset Management and/or its affiliates and employees may hold a position or act as market maker in 
the financial instruments of any issuer discussed herein or act as underwriter, placement agent, advisor or lender to such issuer. The investments and strategies discussed 
herein may not be suitable for all investors. The material is not intended to provide, and should not be relied on for, accounting, legal or tax advice, or investment recom-
mendations. Changes in rates of exchange may have an adverse effect on the value, price or income of investments.
All case studies are shown for illustrative purposes only and should not be relied upon as advice or interpreted as a recommendation. Results shown are not meant to be 
representative of actual investment results. Any securities mentioned throughout the presentation are shown for illustrative purposes only and should not be interpreted 
as recommendations to buy or sell. A full list of firm recommendations for the past year is available upon request. 
J.P. Morgan Asset Management is the brand for the asset management business of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates worldwide. This communication is issued by the 
following entities: in the United Kingdom by JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority; in other EU jurisdictions by 
JPMorgan Asset Management (Europe) S.à r.l., Issued in Switzerland by J.P. Morgan (Suisse) SA, which is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority 
FINMA; in Hong Kong by JF Asset Management Limited, or JPMorgan Funds (Asia) Limited, or JPMorgan Asset Management Real Assets (Asia) Limited, all of which are 
regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission; in Singapore by JPMorgan Asset Management (Singapore) Limited which is regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore; in Japan by JPMorgan Securities Japan Limited which is regulated by the Financial Services Agency, in Australia by JPMorgan Asset Management (Australia) 
Limited which is regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission and in the United States by J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc. which is regu-
lated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly this document should not be circulated or presented to persons other than to professional, institutional 
or wholesale investors as defined in the relevant local regulations. The value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and investors may not get 
back the full amount invested.
JPMorgan Distribution Services, Inc., member of FINRA/SIPC.
270 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017
© 2011 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  |  WP_Regimes    
a uthorS
Jianxiong Sun
Analyst
Strategic Investment Advisory 
Group (SIAG)
Abdullah Z. Sheikh, FIA, FSA 
Director of Research
Strategic Investment Advisory 
Group (SIAG)
